index.md, before:

title = 'Embedded Systems II'

# Lesson Notes

| Lesson | Topic | Assigned | Due |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| L1 | Intro to Digital System Design | | |
| L2 | HDL Overview | | |
| L3 | Basic Language Constructs of VHDL | | |
| L4 | Combinational Circuits in VHDL | | |
| L5 | Sequential Circuits in VHDL | | |
| L6 | Writing VHDL Test Benches | | |
| L7 | Hierarchical and Testable Design in VHDL | | |
| L8 | Finite State Machines | | |
| L9 | [Lab 1 - VGA Synchronization](/labs/video_synchronization.docx) | | |
| L10 | [Lab 1 - VGA Synchronization](/labs/video_synchronization.docx) | | |
| L11 | [Lab 1 - VGA Synchronization](/labs/video_synchronization.docx) | | |
| L12 | VGA Review, Pong Introduction | | |
| L13 | [Lab 2 - Pong](/labs/pong.docx) | | |
| L14 | [Lab 2 - Pong](/labs/pong.docx) | | |
| L15 | [Lab 2 - Pong](/labs/pong.docx) | | |
| L16 | Pong Review, Font Controller Introduction | | |
| L17 | [Lab 3 - Font Controller](/labs/font_controller.docx) | | |
| L18 | [Lab 3 - Font Controller](/labs/font_controller.docx) | | |
| L19 | [Lab 3 - Font Controller](/labs/font_controller.docx) | | |
| L20 | GR #1 | | |
| L21 | PicoBlaze and HW/SW Partitioning | | |
| L22 | FPGA Design for Area, Power, or Speed | | |
| L23 | [Lab 4a - Remote Terminal (PicoBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L24 | [Lab 4a - Remote Terminal (PicoBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L25 | MicroBlaze Introduction | | |
| L26 | [Lab 4b - Remote Terminal (MicroBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L27 | [Lab 4b - Remote Terminal (MicroBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L28 | [Lab 4b - Remote Terminal (MicroBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L29 | Register Transfer Methodology | | |
| L30 | Timing Analysis | | |
| L31 | Clock and Synchronization | | |
| L32 | GR #2 | | |
| L33 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L34 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L35 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L36 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L37 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L38 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L39 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L40 | Final Presentation | | |

Commit message:

added github note at top of index page

index.md, after:

title = 'Embedded Systems II'

# Lesson Notes

**Find a problem?  The source behind this site is available on Github: [file a bug report or send me a pull request!](https://github.com/toddbranch/ECE383/issues)**

| Lesson | Topic | Assigned | Due |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| L1 | Intro to Digital System Design | | |
| L2 | HDL Overview | | |
| L3 | Basic Language Constructs of VHDL | | |
| L4 | Combinational Circuits in VHDL | | |
| L5 | Sequential Circuits in VHDL | | |
| L6 | Writing VHDL Test Benches | | |
| L7 | Hierarchical and Testable Design in VHDL | | |
| L8 | Finite State Machines | | |
| L9 | [Lab 1 - VGA Synchronization](/labs/video_synchronization.docx) | | |
| L10 | [Lab 1 - VGA Synchronization](/labs/video_synchronization.docx) | | |
| L11 | [Lab 1 - VGA Synchronization](/labs/video_synchronization.docx) | | |
| L12 | VGA Review, Pong Introduction | | |
| L13 | [Lab 2 - Pong](/labs/pong.docx) | | |
| L14 | [Lab 2 - Pong](/labs/pong.docx) | | |
| L15 | [Lab 2 - Pong](/labs/pong.docx) | | |
| L16 | Pong Review, Font Controller Introduction | | |
| L17 | [Lab 3 - Font Controller](/labs/font_controller.docx) | | |
| L18 | [Lab 3 - Font Controller](/labs/font_controller.docx) | | |
| L19 | [Lab 3 - Font Controller](/labs/font_controller.docx) | | |
| L20 | GR #1 | | |
| L21 | PicoBlaze and HW/SW Partitioning | | |
| L22 | FPGA Design for Area, Power, or Speed | | |
| L23 | [Lab 4a - Remote Terminal (PicoBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L24 | [Lab 4a - Remote Terminal (PicoBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L25 | MicroBlaze Introduction | | |
| L26 | [Lab 4b - Remote Terminal (MicroBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L27 | [Lab 4b - Remote Terminal (MicroBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L28 | [Lab 4b - Remote Terminal (MicroBlaze)](/labs/remote_terminal.docx) | | |
| L29 | Register Transfer Methodology | | |
| L30 | Timing Analysis | | |
| L31 | Clock and Synchronization | | |
| L32 | GR #2 | | |
| L33 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L34 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L35 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L36 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L37 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L38 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L39 | [Final Project](/labs/final_project.docx) | | |
| L40 | Final Presentation | | |
